JUBA, South Sudan, March 8, 2023/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The U.S. Government joins the people of South Sudan in celebrating International Women’s Day, which is marked annually on March 8 to celebrate the social, economic, cultural, and political achievements of women. This year’s United Nations theme is “DigitALL: Innovation and technology for gender equality.” The U.S. Government is committed to achieving gender equality in all spheres of life, including innovation and technology.


                                USAID is supporting women and girls in South Sudan to realize their rights and reach their potential
                            

In South Sudan, the U.S. Government has long championed empowerment, education, and equity for women and girls. “The future success of South Sudan depends upon the treatment, status, and rights of women and girls. There must be respect for women’s and girls’ rights and an end to sexual and gender-based violence and other violations of their rights,” said U.S. Ambassador to South Sudan Michael J. Adler. “Women and girls deserve the opportunity to play a full and equal role in society, politics, and the economy, as well as in building peace and security.”

The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) funds diverse initiatives that empower women and girls, including expanding their access to education, health care, clean water, and sanitation; providing girls and women training on income-generating livelihoods; supporting women’s role in civil society; and helping prevent and respond to gender-based violence. With the United Nations Population Fund and the Ministry of Gender, Child, and Social Welfare, USAID marked the launch on February 27 of a USAID-funded safe house in Juba and related support services for survivors of gender-based violence.

“No nation can reach its full potential without empowering women and girls,” said USAID Mission Director for South Sudan Kate Crawford. “USAID is supporting women and girls in South Sudan to realize their rights and reach their potential, including their essential role in helping South Sudan achieve lasting peace at the grassroots and national levels.”