TEHRAN, Islamic Republic of Iran, March 1, 2023/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            On the second and last day of his visit to Geneva, Iranian Foreign Minister Hossein Amirabdollahian held a meeting with his counterpart from Senegal, Aïssata Tall Sall, for talks on issues of mutual interest.



Referring to the beginning of the 51st anniversary of official relations between Iran and Senegal, Amirabdollahian said the Islamic Republic stands ready to develop relations with the friendly and brotherly country of Senegal without any restrictions, considering the commonalities and common interests of the two countries.

Emphasizing the importance of Africa in the Iranian foreign policy as well as the pivotal position of Senegal in Africa, the chief Iranian diplomat said the Islamic Republic seeks the holding of the fifth Joint Economic Commission of the two countries in the near future.

Convening the Commission, he added, can provide the necessary grounds for strengthening bilateral cooperation.

Amirabdollahian expressed satisfaction with the increasing volume of commercial exchanges between the two countries, but at the same time assessed it to be less than the great capacities available in the two nations.
                                The Islamic Republic seeks the holding of the fifth Joint Economic Commission of the two countries in the near future
                            

He conveyed the greetings of Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi to his Senegalese counterpart, Macky Sall, inviting him to visit Iran.

In turn, the Foreign Minister of Senegal also expressed satisfaction with the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the relations between the two countries, and said that her country is pleased with the long-standing relations with Iran.

Referring to her two previous trips to Iran, she said Iran-Senegal relations stem from the deep desire of the people of the two countries, and that the two sides must try to figure out how to move relations and affairs forward.

Tall Sall enumerated the issues and priorities of her country in strengthening relations with Iran, welcoming the proposal to hold the fifth meeting of the Joint Commission of the two countries.

The Commission, she added, is an important mechanism to realize the strengthening of relations between the two countries.

She thanked Amirabdollahian for the invitation to visit Tehran, which she accepted, stressing the necessity to make preparations for such a fruitful trip.

The top Senegalese diplomat also relayed President Sall’s warm greetings to his Iranian counterpart, President Ebrahim Raisi.