CAIRO, Egypt, March 13, 2023/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Today, President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi received Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Denmark, Ms. Mette Frederiksen, at Al-Ittihadiya Palace.



The Spokesman for the Presidency, Counselor Ahmed Fahmy, said President El-Sisi and Denmark’s Prime Minister held a bilateral session of talks, followed by an expanded meeting attended by the two countries’ delegations. The two sides looked forward for the first official visit by the Danish Prime Minister to Egypt to contribute to strengthening the friendship between Egypt and Denmark in various fields, particularly as they mark the 65th anniversary of the exchange of diplomatic representation between the two countries.
                                The President and Denmark’s Prime Minister agreed to continue joint coordination to follow-up on the outcomes of the World Climate Summit COP27 that took place in Sharm el-Sheikh
                            

The meeting tackled the main areas of cooperation between Egypt and Denmark, particularly boosting the size and scope of Danish investments in Egypt in a number of vital sectors, such as maritime transport and shipping as well as clean and renewable energy. The President stressed Egypt’s resolve to provide all facilitations possible to enhance and develop investments by giant Danish shipping companies in Egypt, including the establishment of a regional hub for the production of green fuel for ships.

The two sides discussed ways to address the phenomenon of climate change. Danish Prime Minister, Ms. Frederiksen, expressed appreciation for Egypt’s role in international action on climate change. The President and Denmark’s Prime Minister agreed to continue joint coordination to follow-up on the outcomes of the World Climate Summit COP27 that took place in Sharm el-Sheikh. Prime Minister, Ms. Frederiksen, commended Egypt’s efforts to combat illegal migration and the burdens these efforts impose, stressing that Egypt is a vital partner of the European continent in this important issue.

The meeting also focused on developments in international and regional dossiers of common interest, particularly the implications of the Russian-Ukrainian crisis and the unprecedented economic challenges it imposed on the international food and energy security.

President El-Sisi and Denmark’s Prime Minister, Ms. Frederiksen, exchanged views on the latest developments with regard to the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD) dossier. There was an agreement on the importance of reaching a legally-binding agreement to settle the issue in a manner that safeguards the rights and interests of all parties.