FREETOWN, Sierra Leone, March 2, 2023/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The Women for Water and Peace Project builds on UNCDF’s Blue Peace Initiative, and close consultations with local NGOs to understand water-related community conflict issues, and especially their impact on women and girls who mostly have had to be subjected to sexual abuse in order to be able to access water from sources mostly controlled by men.



Through an implementing partner based in Sierra Leone, Institute for Legal Research and Advocacy for Justice (ILRAJ), survivors of Gender-based Violence who have been subjected to abuse while obtaining water from nearby wells were identified from five communities to participate in counselling sessions. The counsellors talked about the necessity for a cooling-off period between victims and their abusers, as well as how to deal with gender-based violence. They also underlined the significance of constantly prioritising their own safety as survivors.

Through the use of theatre for development drama performances and community animators, survivors also received further training and sensitization on their rights and how they can protect themselves from abuses.

Additionally, the community animators raised awareness and understanding of water-related sexual and gender-based violence (SGBV) and how SGBV has a negative impact on the whole of society. In March, ILRAJ is conducting community awareness raising of the Sexual Offences Act, including translations into five local languages, so that community members are aware of the legal consequences of perpetrating sexual violence, and so that victims and survivors know their rights and services available.
                                I learnt that self-love should come first, and we should be aware of our rights and save others from problems
                            

Some testimonials from the survivors who benefited from these activities:

“At first, I was shy about discussing my secrets with others, but now it’s all gone; no anger ever when I see my abuser, I don’t get angry. I have forgiven myself and forgiven my abuser. I feel freer now.”
Anonymous

“I learnt that self-love should come first, and we should be aware of our rights and save others from problems.” Anonymous

“I’m a beneficiary from the sessions, and I have learnt that I should also teach others who will also find themselves in my position.” Anonymous

“I learnt to avoid confrontation in the process of fetching water and to always return after a cooling period to promote peace.” Anonymous