VICTORIA, Seychelles, March 10, 2023/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            On behalf of the Government and people of Seychelles, President Wavel Ramkalawan has extended a congratulatory message to His Excellency, Mr Xi Jinping on his re-election as President of the People’s Republic of China.


                                I would like to take this opportunity to re-affirm our firm support for the One China Policy and the peaceful reunification of Taiwan to the motherland
                            

The President Ramkalawan describes his Chinese counterpart’s achievement as “a testament to your leadership and dedication to the well-being and prosperity of the Chinese people. Under your leadership, China has made impressive strides in economic and social development, technology, and international cooperation. Your vision and strategic guidance have ensured that China continues to play a pre-eminent role in re-shaping the global architecture based on multilateralism, peace, international cooperation and solidarity.

“We are particularly impressed by the deepening of our bilateral relations in recent years. The agreements that we have signed, the infrastructure projects that we have undertaken, and the people-to-people exchanges that we have fosters have strengthened the friendship between our two nations. I look forward to continuing to work with your government in further enhancing our relations and exploring new opportunities for cooperation.

“I would like to take this opportunity to re-affirm our firm support for the One China Policy and the peaceful reunification of Taiwan to the motherland. As a small island nation, Seychelles has always been a strong advocate for peaceful resolution of disputes and respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity. We fully support the efforts of the Chinese Government to uphold its sovereignty and territorial integrity.

“I am confident that under your leadership, China will continue to achieve great success and accomplish the goals you gave set while contributing to the well-being of people across the globe. The One Belt Road Initiative and the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) demonstrate China’s determination to assist other countries in improving infrastructure development as well as facilitating and encouraging world trade”.