CAIRO, Egypt, March 8, 2023/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Today, President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi received U.S. Secretary of Defense, Lloyd J. Austin, and his accompanying delegation. The meeting was also attended by Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, Minister of Defense and Military Production, General Mohamed Zaki, and U.S. Chargé d’Affaires, ad interim, to the Arab Republic of Egypt, Ambassador Daniel Rubinstein.


                                The President emphasized Egypt’s commitment to further intensifying cooperation and coordination between the two countries in an array of areas
                            

Spokesman for the Presidency, Counselor Ahmed Fahmy, stated that during the meeting President El-Sisi stressed Egypt’s keenness on strengthening the strategic partnership with the U.S. The President emphasized Egypt’s commitment to further intensifying cooperation and coordination between the two countries in an array of areas, particularly in the military and security fields, given their importance in reinforcing efforts to restore security and stability and consolidate peace in the Middle East region.

The U.S. Secretary of Defense confirmed that his country holds the Egyptian leadership in high esteem and highly appreciates Egypt’s key role in the Middle East as a rational and responsible stabilizing force. He stressed the U.S.' commitment to further advancing and strengthening cooperation and the strategic partnership with Egypt, particularly their defense cooperation, which constitutes a fundamental cornerstone in the two countries’ relations.

The meeting focused on a number of regional and international issues. President El-Sisi reiterated the need to exert intensive international efforts so as to achieve calm in the Palestinian territories and halt unilateral measures and escalation. The President confirmed that the two-state solution, according to the relevant references of international legitimacy, is considered the pathway toward achieving just and comprehensive peace for the benefit of the peoples of the region. The meeting also touched on efforts to reinforce peace and stability at the international level, in light of the successive global crises, which cast shadow on the various countries around the world.