KHARTOUM, Sudan, March 9, 2023/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The Indonesian Ambassador Sunarko was present and at the same time gave a speech at the Cultural Opera as the highlight of the 2023 Indonesian Culture Fest (ICF) activities entitled "Unity in Diversity" which was held on Wednesday evening, March 8 2023, at the auditorium of the African International University (UIA), Khartoum. No less than 700 visitors packed the event venue which was held lively.



Also present were the Deputy Chancellor for Education and Culture Dr. Murtadho Sulaiman, Deputy Chancellor for Administration and Finance, Dr. Toha Abidin, and Head of the Department of International Relations, Dr. Taj Ed-Din Basyir Niyam, as well as other campus leaders.
                                It was so interesting, this year's festival managed to bring in thousands of visitors, mainly from the UIA campus community who came from various countries in Asia and Africa
                            

In his remarks, Indonesian Ambassador Sunarko appreciated the enthusiasm and creativity of Indonesian students who are members of the Indonesian Student Association (IMI) IUA and PPI Sudan in participating in promoting and introducing Indonesia to its rich cultural arts to campus communities in Sudan through the ICF 2023 event.

"As the younger generation, it is hoped that Indonesian students will not only excel in academics, but also be able to play an active role as ambassadors for the nation in promoting the richness and diversity of Indonesian arts and culture, as well as an understanding of Indonesia abroad," continued the Ambassador.

Cultural festival activities are also able to increase friendly relations between the people of Indonesia and the people of Sudan, as well as among students from other countries who are currently studying at UIA.

ICF activities feature various music and dance performances, pencak silat, food bazaars and traditional games (folklore) as well as a gallery of Indonesia that promotes Indonesian handicrafts and tourism products.

It was so interesting, this year's festival managed to bring in thousands of visitors, mainly from the UIA campus community who came from various countries in Asia and Africa.