CAIRO, Egypt, January 29, 2023/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Today, President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi met with the President of Armenia, Vahagn Khachaturyan, at the Presidential Palace in Yerevan, Armenia, where an official reception was held, national anthems played and the guard of honor inspected.



The Spokesman for the Presidency said President El-Sisi held closed talks with President Khachaturyan, followed by an expanded meeting that included the two countries’ delegations. President Khachaturyan welcomed the historic visit of President El-Sisi and expressed Armenia’s appreciation for Egypt at the official and popular levels, valuing the extended ties between the two friendly countries.

The Armenian president commended the reform steps of the Egyptian economy and the major national projects underway, stressing his country's keenness to support Egypt's development efforts and support it in all fields, in addition to looking forward to exchanging technical expertise with Egypt and collaborating in the implementation of projects in Armenia in a number of sectors, where it has successful experience, particularly infrastructure and transport.
                                President El-Sisi held closed talks with President Khachaturyan, followed by an expanded meeting that included the two countries’ delegations
                            

President El-Sisi expressed Egypt’s appreciation for the warm reception in Armenia, noting the strong and historic Egyptian-Armenian friendship, particularly Egypt’s hosting of the Armenian community and its members who contributed to developments in various political, economic, cultural and artistic fields, as well as their role in enriching the Egyptian society.

President El-Sisi highlighted recent advancement in relations between the two friendly countries at various levels and expressed appreciation for the Armenian president’s participation in COP27, which reflected the strong bilateral relations.

The President looked forward to further enhancing economic and trade relations, in light of the role of the joint committee on economic, scientific and technical cooperation, which last convened in Yerevan in 2017, in addition to the businessmen forum, which helps introducing the areas for investment and trade between the two countries.

Talks touched on a number of regional and international issues of common interest. President Khachaturyan commended Egypt's pivotal role in consolidating stability in the Middle East and Africa, particularly combating illegal migration, achieving interfaith coexistence and supporting peaceful solutions to crises within its regional surroundings.

The two presidents exchanged views on combating terrorism and extremism, as well as means to join forces to confront the global economic repercussions of the Russian-Ukrainian crisis.

President El-Sisi and President Khachaturyan witnessed the signing of a number of agreements and MoUs between the concerned government agencies in the two countries for cooperation in the fields of science and technology, as well as a Memorandum of Understanding between the Egyptian Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Armenian Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sports and a Memorandum of Understanding for institutional cooperation in the investment field. This was followed by a joint press conference.