GENEVA, Switzerland, January 18, 2023/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The forty-second session of the Human Rights Council’s Universal Periodic Review (UPR) Working Group will be held in Geneva from 23 January to 3 February 2023, during which 13 States will have their human rights records examined.  The holding of this session marks the second to take place within the fourth cycle of the UPR, during which all 193 UN member States will undergo a review of their human rights record through this unique process.



The group of States to be reviewed by the UPR Working Group during this session are (in order of scheduled review): Czechia, Argentina, Gabon, Ghana, Peru, Guatemala, Benin, the Republic of Korea, Switzerland, Pakistan, Zambia, Japan and Sri Lanka [1]. The meeting will take place in Room 20 at the Palais des Nations in Geneva and will be webcast live. 
                                During the session, an interactive dialogue between the country under review and the Working Group takes place
                            

During the fourth cycle (Nov. 2022 to Feb. 2027), which is focused on enhanced implementation and follow up, States are expected to spell out steps they have taken to implement recommendations received during their previous reviews, in particular those which enjoyed their support, as well as present developments that occurred since the previous review and share challenges in their follow-up action. The reports serving as the basis for these reviews are available online. 

High-level delegations representing the 13 countries are scheduled to address the Working Group, which comprises the entire membership of the 47-member Human Rights Council, and other UN member or observer States wishing to take part. Over 100 States, on average, make recommendations to each State under Review (SuR). SuRs are expected to present efforts made to fulfil their human rights obligations and commitments, particularly since their last UPR review, assessing positive developments and identifying challenges. The timetable of State reviews and adoption and distribution of reports can be found below and online. 

During the session, an interactive dialogue between the country under review and the Working Group takes place. Each country review lasts three and one-half hours, and an additional half-hour for each country will be devoted to adopting the report containing the recommendations put forward by their peers. The review for each State is facilitated by groups of three Council members from different regional groups, or troikas, who act as rapporteurs. The troikas for States to be reviewed during the session were selected through a drawing of lots on 11 January 2022 during an organizational meeting of the Council.

The final outcome of the forty-second session will be adopted by the plenary of the Human Rights Council at its fifty-third regular session taking place in June/July 2023.