CAPE TOWN, South Africa, January 4, 2023/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The City of Cape Town’s Urban Mobility Directorate will commence with the dualling of Jip de Jager Drive in Bellville later this month. This is a major construction project, planned to take place over a period of 22 months, to increase the road capacity and alleviate traffic congestion. Residents are advised to use alternative roads as far as possible, and to anticipate some level of inconvenience.



The City has budgeted approximately R77 million for this project to relieve traffic congestion along Jip de Jager Drive (M16), a primary arterial route connecting Durbanville, Welgemoed, and Bellville with the N1 freeway.

Work is to commence on 9 January 2023 and should be complete by December 2024, if all goes as planned.
                                Jip de Jager Drive is a major arterial route that links the northern suburbs of Durbanville, Welgemoed, and Bellville with the N1 freeway
                            

The project entails the following:


	The dualling of Jip de Jager Drive from Kommissaris Street to Van Riebeeckshof Road
	The construction of retaining walls for a section adjacent to Kommandeur Street
	Upgrade of existing signalised intersections along this stretch of Jip de Jager Drive
	Construction of walking and cycling lanes
	The extension of a pedestrian culvert at Welgemoed Golf Course


'Jip de Jager Drive is a major arterial route that links the northern suburbs of Durbanville, Welgemoed, and Bellville with the N1 freeway. Currently, this road is a dual carriageway between the N1 and Kommissaris Street.

'However, with a growing population and more developments in these areas, there is a dire need to add additional lanes to Jip de Jager Drive up to Riebeeckshof Road to accommodate the increase in traffic. This will go a long way in alleviating the traffic congestion in the morning and afternoon peak hour periods in particular.

'The contractor will do all it can to limit the impact on road users, however, all road construction projects come with a level of inconvenience and the more important the route, the more severe the impact will be. Best is to avoid this road as far as possible, and to anticipate delays when travelling along this section. Also, residents may experience some dust and noise pollution in the vicinity of the roadworks.

'I want to thank all for their support during this time, and request road users to please comply with the signage and flag personnel's instructions,' said the City's Mayoral Committee Member for Urban Mobility, Councillor Rob Quintas.