ASMARA, Eritrea, January 11, 2023/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The Embassy of the State of Eritrea strongly condemns, and outrightly rejects, the preposterous talking points and claims made against the country and its people by Michael Rubin in the article, “It’s Time to Get Serious About Eritrea,” which was published by The National Interest (10 January 2023) earlier this week.



Although relatively brief, the article is replete with falsehoods and numerous errors. Furthermore, it is extremely disrespectful and highly offensive to the people and government of Eritrea.

Rubin grossly misrepresents the actual situation on the ground in Eritrea and the region. He callously calls for the renewal of illicit sanctions and isolation – which not only violate international law but have also only led to extreme hardships. The author’s ugly smears even extend to libelous and crass disparaging of the Eritrean Embassy in the US, which he dubs as “a den of organized crime”.
                                Beyond Eritrea and the Horn of Africa, Rubin’s body of work and general commentary have come in for considerable criticism and been pilloried
                            

Regrettably, Rubin’s latest compendium of hate is consistent with his now worn-out pattern of conduct, and only serves to confirm his traditionally biased stance when commenting on Eritrean or regional issues.

In just the past few years, he has established a truly formidable track-record of flawed commentary and poor analyses. The narratives that he has consistently sought to enmesh within the public consciousness have been characterized not only by “mere” errors and inaccuracies, but whole-cloth falsehoods. Without citing any evidence, and while tending to reference only his own statements or those of discredited sources, he persistently makes major allegations and serious claims. However, when caught out or proven wrong by objective facts or reality, he unwaveringly fails to offer clarifications or corrections.

It is worth noting that beyond Eritrea and the Horn of Africa, Rubin’s body of work and general commentary have come in for considerable criticism and been pilloried.

Previously, a special investigation by Mother Jones, a popular American magazine, described Rubin as, “one of the neocons who led the US to war with Iraq through misinformation and bogus intelligence.” As well, he regularly advocates extremely dangerous, militaristic, positions and seeks to justify illegal “regime-change” measures that would contravene international norms and laws, lead to unnecessary destructive conflict, and cause widespread havoc and hardship.

While The National Interest is certainly entitled to publish the articles or opinions it wishes, it is highly regrettable that it has chosen to provide a platform for an extremist voice that continually disseminates fabrications and makes unfounded allegations with no regard for facts. The Embassy of Eritrea hopes that The National Interest will better commit itself to truth and maintaining high-standards, professional analyses, rather than being used by certain individuals to perpetuate blatant falsehoods and misleading opinions.