KHARTOUM, Sudan, January 31, 2023/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The Government of Japan has contributed US$ 881 344 to the World Health Organization (WHO)’s office in Sudan. This generous contribution will allow WHO to provide life-saving health and nutritional services for vulnerable communities, as well as clean water, sanitation and hygiene, in 11 Sudanese states for the duration of 12 months.



This grant will enable the WHO country office and the Sudanese Federal Ministry of Health to prevent morbidities and avert avoidable deaths, especially in a time that Sudan faces complex challenges in terms of access to global funds and the worsened and protracted humanitarian situation in Sudan.
                                The Government of Japan’s generous contribution will allow the WHO office in Khartoum to further expand its humanitarian and health assistance to those who need it most
                            

The major driver of humanitarian needs in Sudan has continued to be inter-communal armed conflict, economic crisis, food insecurity, floods, and multiple and simultaneous disease outbreaks. There are 14.3 million people in need of humanitarian assistance, according to the 2022 Sudan Humanitarian Needs Overview. This includes 9.3 million vulnerable residents, 2.9 million internally displaced persons and 940 000 returnees. It has been estimated that some 10.4 million people are in need of health emergency assistance, of which 6.5 million people have been targeted.

“It is our honour to work with WHO in Sudan through our project ‘Provision of life-saving and essential humanitarian health, WASH and nutrition services for vulnerable communities in 11 states of Sudan.’ Japan has long been a strong advocate of, and contributor to, providing humanitarian health services worldwide and improving human security globally. I sincerely hope that this project – which perfectly aligns with our vision of enhancing basic human needs and human security – will contribute to mitigating and improving the response to health-related emergencies encountered by people under high risk of conflicts, natural disasters and outbreaks,” Ambassador of Japan to Sudan, H.E. Mr. Takashi Hattori, commented.

“The resilient people of Sudan continue to struggle against multi-faceted challenges impacting their survival, health and livelihoods. The Government of Japan’s generous contribution will allow the WHO office in Khartoum to further expand its humanitarian and health assistance to those who need it most over a large geographical area. By allowing further development to the response capacity against infectious diseases, this donation – which crystallizes the notion of ‘Health for all, by all’ – will for sure save many lives and improve many others,” stated Dr Ni’ma Saeed Abid, WHO Representative in Sudan.

The Government of Japan has continued to support the people of Sudan in the areas of peace consolidation, assistance for basic human needs and diversification of industries, attested to by a long list of successfully implemented projects. The continuous partnership between Japan and Sudan reflects a model of international collaboration and mutual development visions.