BEIJING, China, January 12, 2023/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            On January 11, 2023 local time, Foreign Minister Qin Gang and Chairperson of the African Union (AU) Commission Moussa Faki Mahamat jointly met the press.
                                Qin Gang said that China is glad to see any country truly help Africa realize peace and development with sincerity
                            

When asked by journalists about China's view on the second U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit, Qin Gang said that as permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, China and the United States shoulder important responsibility for world peace, security and development. The China-United States relationship should not be about a competitive one or a zero-sum game that enlarges one's own gain at the expense of the other; otherwise, it will only hurt both sides and even the world. China and the United States should respect each other, coexist in peace, and pursue win-win cooperation, and should not harm third-party interests. This corresponds with the trend of the times and the common expectations of the international community.

Qin Gang said that the profound traditional friendship between China and Africa, rooted in mutual support between both sides in the fight for national liberation and originating from mutual help in the course of pursuing development, is a friendly relationship of cooperation featuring sincerity, real results, affinity and good faith based on mutual respect, equality, mutual benefit and win-win results. Having withstood the test of the changing international landscape, it has grown from strength to strength, and become unbreakable. Since the beginning of the new century, China has built in Africa more than 6,000 kilometers of railways, 6,000 kilometers of roads, nearly 20 ports, and over 80 large-scale power facilities, and funded over 130 hospitals and clinics, over 170 schools, 45 sports venues and over 500 agricultural projects. These tangible outcomes have played an important role in advancing economic and social development and improving people's livelihood in Africa, demonstrated the true color of China-Africa relations and the defining color of China-Africa friendship, and been praised by African countries and people.

Qin Gang noted that Africa is an emerging continent full of hope, vigor and vitality. Without peace and development of Africa, the world would not be in stability and prosperity. Africa needs solidarity and cooperation, rather than bloc confrontation. No country or individual has the power to force African countries to pick sides. Africa should be a stage for international cooperation, not an arena for major-force rivalry. If there is competition, it should be about who does more practical things for the peace and development of Africa and who helps Africa have more representation and say in the international governance agenda. Qin Gang said that China is glad to see any country truly help Africa realize peace and development with sincerity. If African friends wish, China is also ready to carry out trilateral or multilateral cooperation with any other country in Africa to jointly make greater contributions to the development and rejuvenation of Africa.