KHARTOUM, Sudan, January 22, 2023/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The Government of Japan has contributed US$1.6 million to UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, in support of protection and assistance interventions for refugees hosted in White Nile State, Sudan.



This contribution will benefit over 220,000 South Sudanese refugees in the state amid a complex humanitarian situation in the country, which has seen alarmingly high rates of food insecurity. The new funding will also benefit members of the host community in the areas surrounding the camps.
                                We are grateful to the Government and people of Japan for this commitment and welcome our continued partnership to protect and assist refugees in Sudan
                            

“We are grateful to the Government and people of Japan for this commitment and welcome our continued partnership to protect and assist refugees in Sudan,” said Axel Bisschop, UNHCR Representative in Sudan. “As the country faces its worst food crisis in a decade, this timely funding will enable UNHCR to provide critical humanitarian assistance to refugees in White Nile State” added Bisschop.

Historically among the most underfunded regions in Sudan, White Nile State hosts over 280,000 refugees, over 80 percent of whom live in 10 camps in two localities (As Salam and Aj Jabalain) straddling the White Nile River. A Standardized Expanded Nutrition Survey conducted by UNHCR in 2022 points to the alarming situation of refugees in the state. While global acute malnutrition is reported to be very high or critical, severe acute malnutrition prevalence is critical in all 10 camps across White Nile State.

“It is our honor to work with UNHCR Sudan through our project ‘Protection and Assistance to Refugees in Sudan’. The Government of Japan has long been a strong advocate of and contributor to providing humanitarian and various assistance to refugees worldwide and improving human security globally. Assisting refugees in Sudan remains one of the most critical humanitarian needs in this country. I sincerely hope that this proj ect would contribute to improving access to basic human needs such as health and water for refugees and asylum seekers in White Nile State. The objective of this project perfectly aligns with our vision in enhancing basic human needs and human security.” Ambassador of Japan to Sudan, H.E. Mr. Takashi Hattori commented.

The funding will improve health and nutrition outcomes for refugees in White Nile State by supporting community-based management of acute malnutrition services for children and pregnant and lactating women. The funding will also seek to improve access to primary healthcare services and referrals for secondary healthcare. In addition, the WASH sector will also be targeted through the provision of support to the operation and maintenance of WASH facilities to increase access to safe water.

Sudan is the second largest asylum country in Africa hosting over 1.1 million refugees and asylum-seekers. In 2023, UNHCR Sudan needs US$396 million to deliver an effective response and provide life-saving assistance and protection.