LONDON, United Kingdom, January 15, 2023/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            On January 13, 2023 local time, Beninese President Patrice Talon met with visiting Chinese Foreign Minister Qin Gang in Cotonou.



Talon asked Qin Gang to convey his sincere greetings and best wishes to President Xi Jinping, saying the visit of the new Chinese Foreign Minister to Benin during his first official visit to Africa, which came shortly after the 50th anniversary of the resumption of diplomatic relations between Benin and China, has demonstrated the friendly and close ties between the two countries. Benin cherishes China's long-term support and assistance. Benin, though small in size, stands on the side of truth, equality and justice, and will continue to be a steadfast and reliable friend of China.
                                China will continue to work in solidarity and cooperation with African countries, including Benin, to achieve common development based on the spirit of China-Africa friendship
                            

Talon said that China has found the right development path and made achievements that impressed the whole world, which has deeply inspired all the developing countries. Benin looks forward to learning from China's experience, deepening and expanding practical cooperation with China, and accelerating national development and revitalization.

Qin Gang conveyed President Xi Jinping's cordial greetings to President Talon, noting that over the past half a century, China and Benin have always respected each other and treated each other as equals. China thanks Benin for its understanding and support on issues concerning China's core interests and major concerns, and stands ready to continue as a sincere partner of Benin with political mutual trust and forge ahead together in development. China is looking forward to jointly implementing the important common understandings reached by the two heads of state and the outcomes of the Eighth Ministerial Conference of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation, so as to continuously take China-Benin relations to new levels. China encourages more competent and reputable Chinese enterprises to invest and do business in Benin, and hopes that Benin will safeguard the safety and legitimate rights and interests of Chinese institutions and personnel.

Qin Gang said that China has always adhered to the leadership of the Communist Party of China in its reforms and development, stayed committed to independence, and never simply copied the models of any other countries. China is ready to strengthen experience-sharing on state governance with Benin, and support Benin's pursuit of a development path suited to its national conditions. China will continue to work in solidarity and cooperation with African countries, including Benin, to achieve common development based on the spirit of China-Africa friendship and cooperation and in line with the principles of sincerity, real results, amity and good faith, and a commitment to the greater good and shared interests.

During his visit, Qin Gang also held talks with Beninese Foreign Minister Aurelien Agbenonci. The two sides also signed cooperation documents on people-to-people and cultural exchanges and others.