LONDON, United Kingdom, January 14, 2023/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            On January 13, 2023 local time, Angolan President João Lourenço met with visiting Chinese Foreign Minister Qin Gang in Luanda.



Lourenço asked Qin Gang to convey his best wishes to President Xi Jinping, and expressed appreciation for President Xi Jinping's personal care and support for the development of Angola-China relations. He noted that Angola and China have always enjoyed solidarity and mutual trust, with sound momentum in cooperation. Many landmark major projects supported by China, including airports, hydropower stations, roads and ports, have progressed smoothly in Angola, playing an indispensable role in Angola's post-war reconstruction and economic and social development. Chinese enterprises have made positive contributions to the improvement of infrastructure and people's livelihood in Angola. Angola expects to further deepen cooperation with China and welcomes more Chinese investment in Angola.
                                China appreciates Angola's active mediation of regional hotspot issues, and supports Angola in playing a greater role in international and regional affairs
                            

Lourenço stressed that Angola and China share similar policies and ideas, and that Angola firmly pursues the one-China policy and will continue to work with China to uphold the principle of non-interference in internal affairs and safeguard international fairness and justice.

Qin Gang conveyed President Xi Jinping's cordial greetings to President Lourenço. He said that over the 40 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations, China and Angola have always been sincere and friendly to each other and have forged ahead hand in hand. Thanks to the joint commitment and strategic guidance of generations of leaders of the two countries, political mutual trust and traditional friendship between China and Angola have increasingly deepened, with pragmatic cooperation yielding fruitful outcomes. Qin Gang noted that President Xi Jinping and President Lourenço exchanged congratulatory messages on the 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations on the previous day, charting the course for the development of China-Angola relations. China appreciates Angola's commitment to the one-China principle and its support for China's legitimate proposition. China will, as always, support Angola in opposing external interference, independently choosing its development path and safeguarding national sovereignty, security and development interests. China is ready to work with Angola to implement the important common understandings reached between the two heads of state and upgrade pragmatic cooperation, so as to bring more benefits to the two peoples.

Qin Gang said that China appreciates Angola's active mediation of regional hotspot issues, and supports Angola in playing a greater role in international and regional affairs. China is ready to strengthen coordination between the two sides in multilateral affairs, jointly uphold true multilateralism, safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of developing countries, and work together to build a human community with a shared future.

On the same day, Qin Gang held talks with Angolan Foreign Minister Téte António.