JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, January 10, 2023/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The Sound Connects Fund (SCF) (www.MusicinAfrica.net/SCF), an initiative is serving the development of the cultural and creative industries inviting organisations operating in Southern Africa to apply for funding.



The fund aims to accelerate development and increase the capacities of practitioners in the region. Its third and final call is now open and will close on 15 January 2023. The value of the approved grants will range between €45 000 and €70 000.

The SCF is implemented by the Music In Africa Foundation (MIAF) in partnership with Goethe-Institut. It is made possible with funding from the ACP-EU Culture Programme, a project implemented by the Organisation of the African, Caribbean and Pacific States (OACPS) and funded by the European Union (EU).

To date, the fund has awarded grants worth over €2m to 23 organisations based in Angola, Botswana, eSwatini, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe.

Eligible projects

The fund seeks to support projects and activities in the cultural and creative sector that:
                                The fund supports projects across a wide range of disciplines including, but not limited to, performing arts, visual arts, animation, film, gaming, photography and videography
                            


	Facilitate the rapid production and distribution of high-quality goods within and outside the Southern African region.
	Increase capacities among professionals.
	Support rapid mobility and exchange among creators.
	Enhance access to new markets.
	Develop visual literacy (especially among underrepresented groups).
	Promote advocacy aimed at protecting the interests of creators.
	Support the existence of sustainable financing structures.


Eligible countries

Angola, Botswana, eSwatini, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe

Eligible disciplines

The fund supports projects across a wide range of disciplines including, but not limited to, performing arts, visual arts, animation, film, gaming, photography and videography. 

Eligible languages

Applications to the Sound Connects Fund can made in both English and Portuguese from organisations based in the eligible countries. The English and Portuguese application forms can be downloaded from the Sound Connects Fund website (www.MusicinAfrica.net/SCF).

How to apply 

Interested organisations are urged to visit the Sound Connects Fund website (www.MusicinAfrica.net/SCF) for more information about the fund and the application process.

If you have any queries about the Sound Connects Fund, read through the FAQs (https://bit.ly/3QqV7ii), or email scf@musicinafrica.net.