CONAKRY, Guinea, January 20, 2023/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General and the Acting Head of the United Nations Office for West Africa and the Sahel (UNOWAS), Ms. Giovanie BIHA, concluded today a two-day visit to Conakry, Guinea. The purpose of this visit was to participate in the closing ceremony of the "Promoting Inclusiveness and Social Cohesion in Guinea" caravan which took place on Thursday, January 19, 2023, and also to meet with the transition authorities, the diplomatic corps, civil society and UN country team.





Launched on November 10, 2021 in Nzérékoré, in Guinea Forestière, the "promotion of inclusiveness and social cohesion in Guinea" caravan, supported by the United Nations, aimed to foster reconciliation processes at national and community levels through the contributions of local cultures, and the strengthening and promotion of human rights in a socially cohesive environment.





Praising the authorities and people of Guinea for the success of this project which benefited various communities in ten localities, namely Boffa, Conakry, Dabola, Kankan, Kindia, Koundara, Labé, Macenta, Mamou and Siguiri, the Deputy Special Representative stressed the importance of implementing the recommendations that have been generated after a year of exchanges and consultations. These recommendations include strengthening inclusiveness and transparency in the political, social and economic processes. The improvement of access to basic social services, the equitable distribution of national wealth, and the respect of human rights were also recommended as factors for strengthening social cohesion.
                                Discussions focused on various topics related to the transition process and UN support
                            







On the margins of the event, Ms. BIHA was received in audience by the Prime Minister, Bernard GOUMOU. She also had discussions with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, African Integration and Guineans Abroad, Morissanda KOUYATE, and the Secretary General of the Ministry of Justice and Human Rights, Irène Marie Hadjimalis THIAM.



Discussions focused on various topics related to the transition process and UN support. Ms. BIHA reaffirmed the UN's commitment to support the ongoing transition, in close collaboration with ECOWAS and in accordance with the 10-point timetable for a rapid return to constitutional order, and for the promotion of the rule of law. She also commended the transitional government for opening and holding the trial of the September 28, 2009 massacre.



The Special Representative also met with members of the African Women Leaders Network in Guinea (AWLN), the Association of Victims, Relatives and Friends of the Victims of September 28, 2009 (AVIPA), the United Nations Country Team and representatives of the Diplomatic Corps accredited to the Republic of Guinea.