ASMARA, Eritrea, January 26, 2023/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            President Isaias Afwerki in the afternoon hours of today, 26 January, received at the State House a Russian delegation led by Mr. Sergey Lavrov, Minister of Foreign Affairs.



At the meeting, President Isaias indicated that the illusion to generate a global uni-polar system has totally failed and called for an integrated effort to resist and combat the hegemonic and colonial history that had put the world into jeopardy.

President Isaias also said that the war in Ukraine is vivid evidence and the ultimate attempt of their erroneous hegemonic and dominance policy.
                                Regarding bilateral relations, Mr. Lavrov expressed his country’s readiness to cooperate with Eritrea in the sectors of energy, mining, information technology, education and health
                            

Foreign Minister Lavrov on his part said that the war in Ukraine is between groups of western countries led by the US and the Russian Federation.

Underlining that the western countries including leaders of Germany and France have confirmed that they have been preparing for the war since 2014, Mr. Lavrov said that the peace initiative that Russia took was not in conformity with their strategic interest and as a result, they resorted to escalate the war.

Mr. Lavrov also said that the ‘Group of Friends in Defense of the UN Charter’ which incorporates 20 countries including the Russian Federation and Eritrea have stated their stand on the war to the UN.

Regarding bilateral relations, Mr. Lavrov expressed his country’s readiness to cooperate with Eritrea in the sectors of energy, mining, information technology, education and health.

President Isaias on his part said that Eritrea will give priority to the identified sectors of cooperation and work for their implementation.

Foreign Minister Lavrov accompanied by Foreign Minister Osman Saleh, Presidential Advisor Mr. Yemane Gebreab and Mr. Yemane Gebremeskel, Minister of Information, visited the Pushkin monument and put a wreath.