MASERU, Lesotho, February 22, 2023/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The Ministry of Information, Communications, Science, Technology, and Innovation (MICSTI) will oversee a process between Lesotho and the Republic of India meant to harmonize virtual education for Basotho nationals.



In an interview, the Infrastructure Support Services Officer in the department of ICT, Mr. Bulara Lebaka said this is a noble arrangement meant to enhance quality education in Lesotho and other African countries by offering Diploma, bachelor degree and Masters qualifications in various professions including health.

He noted that this arrangement started in 2010, which seemed its agreement lapsed a few years later, however saying at least, 300 Basotho people from various sectors had already graduated and received their certificates from well-recognized universities in India.
                                It is expected that before the end of this year, classes will resume, and all Basotho nationals will be eligible to access these training at minimal prices
                            

“Going forward, the agreement will be reviewed, and it is expected that before the end of this year, classes will resume, and all Basotho nationals will be eligible to access these training at minimal prices,” he stressed.

Therefore, he pointed out that MICSTI is currently in talks with the NUL, adding that the Council of Higher Education (CHE) will be consulted further to ensure the successful implementation of the initiative.

Mr. Lebaka appealed to Basotho at large to be alert of publications that will be made so that all are informed in terms of when and how to start applying, saying this is a noble effort meant to enhance learning at one’s pace.

In this case, the fourth Sustainable Development Goal (SDG), mainly talks about inclusive and quality education for all and promoting lifelong learning will be achieved, hence the scope of learning goes beyond primary school.

The Republic of India is in South Asia, bounded by the Indian Ocean sharing its land borders with Pakistan to the west, and China, Nepal, and Bhutan to the north.