RABAT, Morocco, February 27, 2023/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            In partnership with the Association des Loteries d’Afrique (ALA), SOREC (www.SOREC.ma)​ reiterated the successful experience of last year by organizing the 2023 edition of the Grand Prix of Africa from February 23rd to 25th in Marrakech.



This new edition brought together high-level jockeys and horses and was an opportunity for SOREC to host twelve delegations from African lotteries and several representatives from the industry in Europe. The aim was to showcase Africa's expertise in the field of gaming and horse racing as well as its know-how in promoting attractive and responsible gaming on the continent.



« We are delighted that this major event is being held once again in Africa. Morocco confirms its desire to support the growth of the equine sector on the continent and to support the new momentum given to racing in Africa. It is also a unique opportunity to strengthen cooperation and solidarity between our countries », said Omar SKALLI, CEO of SOREC.
                                Morocco confirms its desire to support the growth of the equine sector on the continent and to support the new momentum given to racing in Africa
                            



« The 2022 edition of the Grand Prix of Africa was a real success which has reinforced our desire to maintain its organization in Marrakech. Through SOREC, Morocco has demonstrated its ability to unite the entire ecosystem around a major international event and to increase the visibility and dynamism of African racing », said Dramane COULIBALY, President of the ALA.



The seminar preceding the horse racing event showcased the importance of sharing and transferring expertise to enhance the competitiveness of African lottery institutions. Titled «Expertise-sharing, a performance booster for African Lotteries», the 2023 seminar promised to be a constructive and high-value exchange.



The Grand Prix of Africa now plays a significant role in the international recognition of the African horse racing sector. It represents the shared aspirations of various institutions to promote equine-related practices, reveal and strengthen Africa's expertise in horse racing and gaming, and foster attractive and responsible gaming practices.