MONROVIA, Liberia, February 17, 2023/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The President of the Republic, H.E. Dr. George Manneh Weah has dedicated a newly constructed annex at the famous Boatswain High School on Jamaica Road, accomplishing another monumental milestone in revamping the country's education sector.



Boatswain High School has been operating as a junior high since its construction in 1968 during the administration of late President William V.S. Tubman.

With the construction of the new annex today, Friday, February 17, 2023, Boatswain is now poised to run a full senior high school under the aegis of the Monrovia Consolidated School System (MCSS).

Making brief remarks before cutting the ribbon to the new Annex dedication ceremonies, President Weah described the effort as a milestone accomplishment that aligns with the government's quest to revamp the education sector and to give students opportunities to advance and prepare themselves for future leadership.
                                The President asserted that he would do everything within his powers to ensure that Liberian students get the needed opportunities to pursue their dreams
                            

Reflecting on his very difficult journey in acquiring secondary education, something he blamed on lack of opportunity at the time, President Weah said he could not sit supinely while contemporary students endure tough times getting education.

The President asserted that he would do everything within his powers to ensure that Liberian students get the needed opportunities to pursue their dreams and to become future leaders in all fields of persuasion.

After pursuing and acquiring college education abroad, he said he made the deliberate choice to come back home to lend support to making Liberia a better place for all, where every child aspiring for education will be given the opportunity to harness their wishes.

The President extolled the leadership of the MCSS headed by Mr. Isaac Saye-Lakpoh Zawolo for the excellent job being done to contribute to the improvement of the education sector.

The President also thanked parents for their patience and resilience in supporting their children to remain in school.

He craved the support and cooperation of parents to enable the government to realize its goals of bettering the education sector and improving the wellbeing of the Liberian people.

This is the second time in a month President Weah has cut ribbon to newly refurbished schools, the first being the King Gray Elementary School in the ELWA Community about three weeks ago.