ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia, February 18, 2023/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Kenya’s Health Cabinet Secretary, Dr. Nakhumicha S. Wafula, is currently attending the 36th Ordinary Session of the Assembly of the African Union in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. The conference is focusing on health financing and sustaining action to end AIDS, related communicable and non-communicable diseases, which are critical issues for Kenya and the rest of Africa.



On the first day of the summit, two important meetings were held to address the Kenyan and African health agenda. The first meeting, convened by PEPFAR, NEPAD Agency, and USAmbPEPFAR, discussed health financing and sustaining action to end AIDS and related communicable and non-communicable diseases. The meeting highlighted the importance of investing in health and mobilizing resources to achieve universal health coverage.
                                The conference highlights the need for countries to work together to address health challenges in the continent and invest in health to achieve universal health coverage
                            

The second meeting was a high-level meeting on “Progress and Achievements in Addressing Malnutrition in Africa,” co-hosted by the Prime Minister of Lesotho, the AUC, AfDB Group, and FAO. This meeting discussed progress made in addressing malnutrition in Africa and the challenges that still need to be addressed. The meeting emphasized the need for African countries to work together to combat malnutrition and ensure food security.

The AU summit is a significant platform for African leaders to discuss and develop solutions to the health challenges facing the continent. Health financing and sustaining action to end AIDS and related communicable and non-communicable diseases are critical issues that require urgent attention, and the conference provides an opportunity to explore sustainable solutions.

The discussions and outcomes of the conference will help guide policies and programs that will improve the health and well being of people in Africa. The participation of Kenya’s Health Cabinet Secretary in the AU summit demonstrates the government’s commitment to addressing the health challenges in the country and Africa.

It is hoped that the discussions and outcomes of the conference will help guide policies and programs that will improve the health and well-being of people in Africa. The conference highlights the need for countries to work together to address health challenges in the continent and invest in health to achieve universal health coverage.