VICTORIA, Seychelles, February 25, 2023/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Seychelles’ should share its strong governance principles to help set examples for member states of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) says its Executive Chair.


                                We will give you every support in your endeavour to achieve the objectives of our organisation and we remain steadfast in our resolve to ensure peace and stability in the region
                            

Mr. Elias Magosi was speaking during his courtesy call on the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Tourism, Mr. Sylvestre Radegonde at Maison Queau de Quinssy, on Thursday 23rd February 2023 ahead of his meeting with the President of the Republic, Mr. Wavel Ramkalawan. Mr. Magosi stressed on the need for sharing of experiences in the SADC community as every member state holds comparative advantages in a particular area that others can learn and benefit from.

He told Minister Radegonde that he is on a mission to meet with SADC Heads of States to identify priorities and needs of their respective countries and ways in which the Secretariat can support their aspirations for integration. He stressed on the need for a strong foundation of peace and security in the region as an enabler for progress and development.

Minister Radegonde welcomed the initiatives of the Executive Secretary reassured him that “we will give you every support in your endeavour to achieve the objectives of our organisation and we remain steadfast in our resolve to ensure peace and stability in the region”. The Minister also called on SADC’s support for the plight of Small Island Developing States to have the international community adopt a Multidimensional Vulnerability Index (MVI) that allows Small Island States such as Seychelles to access financing that addresses their inherent vulnerabilities. The Minister referenced the impact of COVID-19 which caused the collapse of the tourism market to accentuate the point. 

Both Minister Radegonde and Mr. Magosiagreed that the organisation needs to focus on achieving results.