JUBA, South Sudan, February 25, 2023/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The International Rescue Committee with other one hundred and eight humanitarian resource planning partners have releasedthe South Sudan Regional Refugee Response Plan for January to December 2023 that seeks to preserve asylum space in the region and expand it to include freedom of movement and settlement options outside camps and calls upon the inclusion of refugees into national systems such as health, education, and the economy.


                                The essence of the plan is to promote self-reliance, protect the rights of refugees and strengthen integrity and accountability in delivering protection and solutions
                            

South Sudan is facing a deadly mix of crises, from conflict and displacement to disease outbreaks and soaring rates of malnutrition. Meanwhile, climate change is making these crises worse and unleashing new ones. Finding safe and sustainable solutions to their displacement, supporting voluntary informed choices to remain and integrate with local communities, or return to their homes of origin remains critical in order to support the population with decisive and timely humanitarian action.

Donors have also been called upon to give US$ 1.33B that will go towards meeting the critical needs of over 2.2 million refugees and asylum-seekers and 1.89 million members of their hosting communities. The IRC and partners also urge for the involvement of refugees into climate adaptation strategies considering the impact of climate change in the region. The essence of the plan is to promote self-reliance, protect the rights of refugees and strengthen integrity and accountability in delivering protection and solutions.

The IRC started working in South Sudan in 1989. With more than 900 full-time staff members, the IRC in South Sudan provides critical primary and reproductive health and nutrition, environmental health, protection and economic recovery and resilience services to increasingly vulnerable internally displaced persons, refugees, returnees and host communities. The IRC in South Sudan partners with national and state authorities and local partners to strengthen health systems and support especially displaced populations to obtain durable solutions.