MOMBASA, Kenya, February 28, 2023/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Workonline Communications (https://www.Workonline.Africa), the wholesale internet provider company, has launched its third core Point-of-Presence (PoP) in Mombasa, Kenya.



The additional PoP, housed in the carrier-neutral iColo datacentre in Mombasa, brings an important new addition to the IP Transit options available in the datacentre to content distribution networks, cloud networks, and internet service providers.
                                Workonline’s PoP is a welcome boost for ensuring that more citizens and, as a result, small businesses can come online and enjoy the benefit of world-class internet
                            

Workonline is recognized for its long term vision of deploying equipment capable of delivering up to 100 Gbps services at each of its core PoPs. Further to this, Workonline has continued to invest in its Kenyan network, and now connects its two PoPs in Mombasa to its PoP in Nairobi over the four most reliable routes, which in turn enables Workonline to provide the most reliable remote peering services, Ethernet Virtual Private Line (EVPL), Ethernet Private Line (EPL), and IP Transit services in the market today.

Workonline (AS 37271), founded in 2006, is one of the largest IP transit networks in Africa. The company established its first PoP in Kenya in 2017, and is continually expanding its infrastructure across both East and West Africa.

In early 2019, Workonline Communications became the first African network to deploy Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI) Route Origin Validation (ROV) to improve the security of Internet routing in Africa, and Workonline’s engineers continue to assist other networks in Africa in implementing RPKI ROV.

“We’re committed to keeping traffic local and building a better Internet in Africa, with Africa – and supporting secure, efficient, on-continent networks,” says Benjamin Deveaux, Head of Business Development at Workonline Group.

iColo’s CEO, Ranjith Cherickel explains that Workonline’s PoP is a welcome boost for ensuring that more citizens and, as a result, small businesses can come online and enjoy the benefit of world-class internet. “We are proud to partner with Workonline Communications to offer this experience.”