MASERU, Lesotho, February 24, 2023/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The Media Institute of Southern Africa Lesotho, in collaboration with the Lesotho commission for UNESCO, held a Media Information Literacy (MIL) Civic Engagement Framework presentation in Maseru on Thursday.



Speaking at the event, MISA Chairperson, Mr. Lekhetho Ntsukunyane said MISA Lesotho works with civil society to build a network with the general public.

He noted that in this era of social media, everyone has the platform to disseminate information, saying MISA is aimed at educating the general public on how to disseminate information and to consume it as it affects their daily lives, mostly in decision-making.
                                They are aiming at reducing the risks and threats of unwarranted usage of information and its passage to society for purposes of misinformation
                            

Also speaking, the Media Consultant, Mr. Sithetho Mzimkhulu said the objective of MIL is to ensure that there are as many citizens who are media and information literate so that they can create so society that is competent in the optimal ethical and responsible as well.

Mr. Mzimkhulu said they are aiming at reducing the risks and threats of unwarranted usage of information and its passage to society for purposes of misinformation, disinformation, and embarking on hate speech which delay the objective of communication in any set-up.

He stressed they are expecting to archive beautiful patterns of information dissemination are formed and this reinforces the filtering of information from primary sources to ultimate recipients of the education ladder.

On the same token, the Lesotho commission for UNESCO Acting Chairperson, Mrs. Mabafokeng Seala said that civil society plays a pivotal role in the implementation of UNESCO programs.

She said also civil societies help in engaging stakeholders, active participation, and effective reporting.

The participating stakeholders are the media, youth, women, trade unions, and civil societies.