JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, February 6, 2023/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Mondelēz International (www.MondelezInternational.com), the multinational leading confectionery, food, and beverage company, has been recognised as one of Africa's top regional employers for the fourth consecutive year. Top Employers were recognized in a global virtual event by the Top Employers Institute on 17 January 2023.



To earn Top Employer certification, companies are evaluated against a rigorous list of entry criteria and participate in an HR Best Practices Survey. Mondelēz International ranked in second place in Nigeria, and sixth place in South Africa overall among Africa’s best employers. 

“From an HR and people practices perspective, there are few greater honours than validation and certification from a reputable international authority such as the Top Employers Institute,” said Cebile Xulu, Senior Director, People Lead Sub-Saharan Africa at Mondelēz International.

“The world of work has undergone drastic changes in recent years from the mass implementation of remote and hybrid working arrangements, and the need for greater emphasis on tracking and disclosing diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives, to the fierce competition to attract and retain the best talent. We are proud that as a company we have been able to navigate these latest trends proactively and equitably.”
                                The world of work has undergone drastic changes in recent years from the mass implementation of remote and hybrid working arrangements
                            

“These results are not fortuitous” 

“From the feedback reports issued by the Institute, we learned that our organisation ranked highly across four particular areas: leadership, articulating a clear purpose and vision, driving a remarkable and measurable diversity and inclusion agenda, and leading with ethics and integrity across the business.

“These results and outcomes are not fortuitous, they have been forged through Mondelēz International’s deliberate focus on fostering a workplace that cares for and recognises employees while allowing them to develop and deliver their best across the value chain,” explained Xulu.

Why choose Mondelēz?

With an unparalleled portfolio of global and local brands such as Oreo, Cadbury, Bournvita, Tom Tom, Halls, Lunch Bar and Stimorol, presence across more than 150 countries, a solid footprint in fast-growing markets and an 80,000-strong base of talented and diverse employees, Mondelēz International is uniquely positioned to lead the future of snacking, particularly in Sub-Saharan Africa.

“We share a love for our brands with millions of people worldwide and take great care of this rich heritage. Leading in this fast-moving market is a constant challenge and demands our best, but it also provides opportunities to grow every day. Great people and great brands, that’s who we are,” concludes Xulu.