PRETORIA, South Africa, February 2, 2023/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            President Cyril Ramaphosa has informed Chief Justice Raymond Zondo of his consideration to appoint Justice Mahube Betty Molemela as Judge President of the Supreme Court of Appeal.



The President has, through the Chief Justice, invited the Judicial Service Commission, to advise on the suitability of Justice Molemela to hold the office of the President of the Supreme Court of Appeal.

The President has undertaken this consultation in terms of Section 174(3) of the Constitution.

This constitutional provision sets out that the President, as head of the National Executive - and after consulting the Judicial Service Commission and the leaders of parties represented in the National Assembly – appoints the Chief Justice and Deputy Chief Justice. After consulting the Judicial Service Commission, the President appoints the President and Deputy President of the Supreme Court of Appeal.
                                Justice Molemela is currently a Judge of the Supreme Court of Appeal
                            

The position of the President of the Supreme Court of Appeal has been vacant following the appointment of Justice Maya to the position of the Deputy Chief Justice of the Constitutional Court with effect from 01 September 2022.

Justice Molemela is currently a Judge of the Supreme Court of Appeal.

She has established an illustrious judicial career spanning over 15 years, having first been appointed as a Judge of the Free State Division of the High Court in 2008.

During her 15 years on the Bench she served as a Judge President of the Free State Division of the High Court for three years before her elevation to the Supreme Court of Appeal in 2018.

She has also served as a Judge of the Labour and Labour Appeal Court, Acting Judge of the Competition Appeal Court and Acting Judge of the Constitutional Court for two terms in 2015.

She holds a B.Proc degree (University of Fort Hare); LLB, LLM and LLD (Honoris Causa) (all three from the University of Free State).