VICTORIA, Seychelles, February 22, 2023/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            President Wavel Ramkalawan received the newly appointed President of the New Seventh-Day Adventist (SDA) Mission of Seychelles, Pastor Vissen Mootoosamy during a courtesy call at State House yesterday morning. Pastor Mootoosamy will be based here in Seychelles for the next 3 years.



The President welcomed Pastor Vissen Mootoosamy to Seychelles and wished him well as he take on this new responsibility. President Ramkalawan expressed his wish that throughout his three years tenure in Seychelles, the partnership between the Government and the New Seventh-Day Adventist Church will be further strengthened in areas where they share common values.
                                The partnership between the Government and the New Seventh-Day Adventist Church will be further strengthened in areas where they share common values
                            

During their discussion, Pastor Mootoosamy bring forward the different areas at the attention of the Head of State where they feel they can make valuable contributions namely in sensitizing the population on moral values, as well as in social and health aspects.

Speaking to the local media after his meeting with the President, Pastor Mootoosamy spoke about how the New Seventh-Day Adventist (SDA) Mission Seychelles believes that the youth should develop their full potential not only academically but also in other domains.

“Our church has a philosophy on education and we are ready to contribute in that sense. We believe that youth should attain excellence but we all develop their potential in a more holistic system. We believe in a more extended education where children can develop academically, in sports, in arts, and other aspects,” he explained.

Pastor Mootoosamy was accompanied by the Executive secretary – SDA, Pastor Nelson Joubert, the Chief Financial Officer – SDA, Elder Hugh Watts, and the Director of Public Affairs – SDA, Mrs. Natalie Edmond.