NAIROBI, Kenya, February 24, 2023/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            On Wednesday Uasin Gishu, the Principal Secretary of the State Department of Medical Services, Eng Peter Tum, joined the Cabinet Secretary for Foreign and Diaspora Affairs, Dr Alfred Mutua, and the Governor of Uasin Gishu, Hon Jonathan Bii, in welcoming the French Minister for Foreign Trade Economic Attractiveness and French Nationals Abroad, Hon. Mr. Olivier Becht, at the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital.



During the visit, the PS expressed gratitude for the French Government’s support in improving healthcare in Kenya. The French Government has been a great partner in supporting various healthcare facilities in the country, including the Shoe 4 Africa Children’s Hospital and the Riley Mother and Baby Hospital.
                                The partnership between Kenya and France in healthcare is an excellent example of the positive impact that can result from international cooperation
                            

In addition, the French Government has supported the HepWek Project through the Solidarity Fund for Innovative Projects (FSPI) for the past two years. The project aims to improve the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma through capacity building and other initiatives.

“Thanks to the partnership with France, significant progress has been made in improving healthcare in Kenya. Access to healthcare services has been expanded, mortality rates have been reduced, and overall health outcomes have improved for the Kenyan people,” the PS said.

The PS also expressed appreciation for the support of the Cabinet Secretary for Foreign and Diaspora Affairs and the Governor of Uasin Gishu in welcoming the French Minister. The partnership between Kenya and France in healthcare is an excellent example of the positive impact that can result from international cooperation.

Moving forward, the PS reaffirmed the commitment to continuing to work with the French Government and other partners to improve healthcare in Kenya. The ultimate goal is to provide universal access to quality healthcare services to all Kenyans, regardless of their economic or social status.