BELETWEYNE, Somalia, February 10, 2023/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            An outgoing contingent of Djiboutian troops serving under the African Union Transition Mission in Somalia (ATMIS) has been commended for advancing peace and stability in south-central Somalia.



The  battalion, which was based at the Jalalaqsi Forward Operating Base (FoB), had been instrumental in the ongoing offensive against Al-Shabaab  in Hiiraan region and had forged a strong working relationship with counterparts in the Somali National Army (SNA).

Speaking during the farewell ceremony in Beletweyne, Thursday, ATMIS Sector 4 Commander Col. Hassan Djama Farah praised the troops for advancing the mission’s objectives of maintaining peace and stability in their area of operation.
                                The departing troops have achieved enormous outcomes during their stay; they have carried out their duties with competence and responsibility
                            

“The departing troops have achieved enormous outcomes during their stay; they have carried out their duties with competence and responsibility; they have managed to maintain peace in Jalalaqsi town and its nearby areas,” said Col. Farah. “They have helped the residents during times of severe drought. Alongside the Somali National Army (SNA), they participated in recent operations to combat the terrorist group Al-Shabaab.”

Djiboutian peacekeepers are based in sector 4 in the Hiiraan region of Hirshabelle State.  Working closely with their Ethiopian counterparts, the Djiboutian troops have been active in supporting the SNA in its ongoing offensive against the Al-Shabaab in south and central Somalia.

The military operations have in the recent past registered significant gains in uprooting Al-Shabaab and recovering significant territories which were previously outside government control.

Col. Farah asked the incoming troops to emulate their outgoing counterparts and ensure the restoration of peace and security in their areas of operation.

“We urge the incoming battalion to work hard and achieve even more than what has already been accomplished,” he added.