CAIRO, Egypt, February 1, 2023/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            On February 1, 2023, the U.S. Embassy in Cairo, in partnership with Al-Azhar Institutes, held the finals for the first-ever Al-Azhar National Spelling Bee Competition. Over 300,000 kindergarten, primary, middle, and secondary school students from all governorates of Egypt participated in the spelling bee at the local, district, governorate, regional, and national levels.




                                Spelling bees help build vocabulary by introducing students to new words and ideas
                            

At the closing ceremony, Ambassador Daniel Rubinstein, Chargé d’Affaires, a.i. of the U.S. Embassy in Cairo, and Professor El Dhweeny, Deputy to the Grand Imam, congratulated all the students who participated in the competition and awarded medals to the top three participants from each grade.



In his remarks, Ambassador Rubinstein highlighted the importance of spelling bees and U.S. support for education in Egypt, stating “Spelling bees help build vocabulary by introducing students to new words and ideas. The U.S. Embassy is proud to support English language education in Egypt as part of our broader support for education in Egypt, including the establishment of STEM schools across the country and programs providing early-grade reading instruction to nearly 60,000 students in close to 2,000 schools.”



The U.S. Embassy in Cairo’s cooperation with Al-Azhar Institutes in developing and implementing the first-ever national spelling bee in Egypt is only the latest initiative in the U.S. Government’s over $1.7 billion of support for education in Egypt since 1978. Since 2007, the Regional English Language Office (RELO) of the U.S. Embassy in Cairo has also partnered with Al-Azhar through the English Language Resource Center to provide Al-Azhar University faculty with English language classes to support mutual understanding and greater access to professional development opportunities. Since 2021, the U.S. Embassy’s RELO program has trained over 600 English teachers at Al-Azhar Institutes, who have shared these skills and knowledge with nearly 6,000 teachers, indirectly benefitting the hundreds of thousands of students they teach in every governorate in Egypt.