PRETORIA, South Africa, February 28, 2023/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Minister in the Presidency for Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities, Maite Nkoana-Mashabane wishes to express her outrage at the brutal killing of women and children in South Africa.



This comes after learning with shock, sadness and outrage at the killing of Bela-Bela (Limpopo) woman, Abrahams Carmen Cloete (34) and her daughter Lee Cloete (11) by her ex-boyfriend and father to her daughter, Ndlovu Hendrick Muzi (38) on Saturday,25 February 2023.It is alleged that Muzi shot Cloete and their daughter then later turned the gun on himself. 
                                It is absolutely unconscionable that a human being can, based on being rejected or having their pride dented, resort to this level of violence
                            

In the same weekend, A Mpumalanga woman and her three children were found hacked to death in a house in Piet Retief on Friday 24 February 2023. Police officers found the bodies of the 47-year-old woman, her 11-year-old twin sons and 6-year-old daughter after they had to break into the home in Phola Park, Thandukukhanya. An axe, which police suspect is the murder weapon, was found in the house.

The police are looking for Thembinkosi Africa Shongwe, 55, the woman's husband and father of the 6-year-old.

“Once again, we find ourselves as a nation in absolute pain and disbelief as we mourn women and children who have lost their lives at the hands of men. We can never get used to this brutality against women and children. Women and children are abused, assaulted, raped and murdered daily in this country and it has become the norm of which it should never be,” said Minister Nkoana-Mashabane. 

“It is absolutely unconscionable that a human being can, based on being rejected or having their pride dented, resort to this level of violence that is absolutely brutal, and barbaric. The death of these women and their children is extremely sad and we wish to send our condolences to their family and friends,” added Minister Nkoana-Mashabane.

“In the case of the Cloete family, we unfortunately cannot say the law must take its course as the perpetrator is deceased, but in cases of this nature the Justice System must show no mercy when sentencing the perpetrator. No one is above the law and anyone who commits such heinous acts must receive harsh punishment for their crimes,” concluded Minister Nkoana-Mashabane.