JUBA, South Sudan, February 17, 2023/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The number of civilians affected by violence in South Sudan increased sharply at the end of 2022, compared to both the previous quarter and the same period in 2021, according to the latest quarterly brief from the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS). From October to December 2022, the number of civilians harmed increased by 87 per cent, compared to the same period in 2021. This rise was accompanied by a disturbing increase in abductions and conflict-related sexual violence — which have gone up by 464 per cent and 360 per cent respectively, when compared to the previous year. However, the overall number of incidents of violence for the entire 2022 decreased when compared to the previous year.


                                This year is a make-or-break year for South Sudan to complete key benchmarks in the peace agreement and prepare for election
                            

Violence in the last three months of 2022 was concentrated in specific areas (Upper Nile, Warrap and Jonglei). More than half (53 per cent) the number of civilian victims came out of the conflict between Agwelek Forces and the Kitgwang group and their respective allied armed militias in the Greater Upper Nile region. Many civilians were also hit by intercommunal violence in Warrap, Jonglei, and Eastern Equatoria states. These conflicts were exacerbated by pre-existing communal tensions, climate shocks, food insecurity, disruption of livelihoods and the devaluation of the local currency – factors which are still contributing to cattle-related violence and wider tensions between communities.

UNMISS calls for urgent action by the Government of South Sudan to address the escalating violence and to protect civilians, in line with international human rights and humanitarian laws. “This year is a make-or-break year for South Sudan to complete key benchmarks in the peace agreement and prepare for elections. This will not be possible if conflict, that increasingly presents an ethnic or tribal dimension, persists, and threatens to unravel hard-won peace gains achieved so far. More seriously, the alarming abductions and sexual violence must stop,” said Nicholas Haysom, Special Representative of the Secretary-General, and Head of the UN in South Sudan.

The Mission is doing all within its power to prevent or curb deadly violence in the areas of greatest need by undertaking peace advocacy and dialogues in addition to hundreds of patrols, by land, air, and river, and also establishing temporary operating bases in conflict hotspots.  These efforts are backed by UNMISS’ support for the implementation of the Revitalized Peace Agreement and its Roadmap, through presence in all ten states to protect civilians, address the root causes of violence, and urge for accountability.