JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, February 25, 2023/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            H.E Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President of the Republic of Guinea has appointed Teresa Isabel Nnang Avomo as the new Director General for national oil company (NOC) GEPetrol, replacing H.E Antonio Oburu Ondó who was appointed Minister of Mines and Hydrocarbons in a cabinet reshuffle in early February.



The selection of Teresa Isabel Nnang Avomo as the NOCs new Director General will bring in a new era of continued oil and gas industry growth in Equatorial Guinea and sends a clear signal of the government’s commitment to ensure gender inclusivity and equality in evolving the energy sector.

The African Energy Chamber (AEC) (EnergyChamber.org), as the voice of the African energy sector, would like to congratulate Teresa Isabel Nnang Avomo for her appointment and believes her leadership qualities will direct GEPetrol into a new phase of growth and maximal partnerships with global majors and independents to drive Equatorial Guinea’s oil and gas industry expansion. The Chamber is committed to working with Teresa Isabel Nnang Avomo to drive Equatorial Guinea and Africa’s energy sector growth.
                                The Chamber strongly commends Equatorial Guinea for the selection of a female leader to head the NOC
                            

The AEC strongly supports H.E Obiang Nguema Mbasogo’s move to empower female energy leaders in driving Equatorial Guinea’s energy sector to greater heights.

Prior to the appointment, Teresa Isabel Nnang Avomo served as Deputy Director of Operations at GEPetrol, a position which has prepared her for the Director General role. As Deputy Director of Operations, Teresa Isabel Nnang Avomo has been crucial in directing and optimizing the NOCs upstream operations and business across the entire hydrocarbons value chain.

With Equatorial Guinea seeking to maximize activities, partnerships and investments across the entire hydrocarbon value chain to address local, regional and global energy needs while driving gross domestic product growth, we believe the selection of Teresa Isabel Nnang Avomo is a huge step in the right direction.

While GEPtrol seeks to maximize exploration and production in both marginal and new fields – having signed exploration and production sharing contracts with Panoro Energy and Africa Oil Corp for operations in hydrocarbon-rich offshore blocks EG-01, EG-18 and EG-31, Teresa Isabel Nnang Avomo is well positioned to drive the NOC’s industry-changing campaigns in the fields. In addition, with the industry heavyweight seeking reliable partners to fast-track the development of giant discoveries such as the Fortuna Liquefied Natural Gas project, we believe Teresa Isabel Nnang Avomo will close that chapter that will drive Equatorial Guinea’s sustainable market growth. Furthermore, projects such as the Gas Mega Hub, we believe will continue to drive regional gas market expansion with GEPetrol as a major partner and under the leadership of Teresa Isabel Nnang Avomo.

“The Chamber strongly commends Equatorial Guinea for the selection of a female leader to head the NOC. The country and Africa as a whole have massive energy resources which we believe with more female participation in the sector, we have an opportunity to be innovative and maximize exploration, production, exploitation and monetization to make energy poverty history. The AEC would like to congratulate Teresa Isabel Nnang Avomo for her appointment as GEPetrol’s new Director General,” stated NJ Ayuk, the Executive Chairman of the AEC.

AEC’s 2023 edition of the African Energy Week (AEW) (AECWeek.com) conference and exhibition – Africa’s premier event for the energy sector which will be held from 16-20 October 2023 in Cape Town – will feature female energy leaders spearheading the continent’s energy sector evolution. AEW 2023 will host high-level panel discussions and exclusive networking sessions focusing on gender inclusivity and equality in the oil and gas industry for Africa to achieve an inclusive and just energy transition.