CAIRO, Egypt, February 28, 2023/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Dow (NYSE: Dow) (www.Dow.com), one of the world’s leading materials science companies, has appointed Sami Mainich as the President of its Africa operations, effective immediately. 



Mainich previously served as the Managing Director for Dow North and West Africa. Based in Cairo, Egypt, he will be accountable for capitalizing on market opportunities, working closely with the businesses to drive and implement accelerated growth strategies across the region.



Neil Carr, President Dow Europe, Middle East, Africa, and India described Mainich’s appointment as a testament of Dow’s commitment to the continent. “Sami has been a vital business leader in the company. His leadership qualities and experience fit hand-in-glove with the envisaged growth opportunities in the African region. As President, Mainich’s new role will be vital in driving critical enterprise-wide initiatives to provide solutions that accelerate the continent’s industrialisation and sustainability agenda.” 



Mainich joined Dow in 2011 and has served in various leadership roles including Regional Director for Morocco and Algeria, and Sales Director for the Packaging & Specialty Plastics business across Middle East, Africa and Turkey region. In 2018, he was appointed Regional Director for the greater North Africa and Levant geographies – in addition to assuming Egypt’s country leadership.


                                Mainich’s new role will be vital in driving critical enterprise-wide initiatives to provide solutions that accelerate the continent’s industrialisation and sustainability agenda
                            

In 2020, Mainich was appointed Chair of the Dow Africa Steering Committee (ASC), leading a team of cross-functional leaders to boost market participation, create business synergies and drive growth.



Commenting on his appointment, Mainich said; “Africa’s path to industrialization requires global trade linkages, enhanced productivity, and adaptation to evolving scientific and technology trends. We leverage our science and technology to address today’s most pressing challenges and enable sustained and inclusive economic growth.”



He added; “We do this through our charitable investments, engaging our employees for impact, and through strategic partnerships. Our work with partners such as Mr. Green Africa, Wecyclers, World Learning and Child Fund supports the advancement of sustainable solutions, enabling a circular economy, building inclusive communities, and developing tomorrow’s innovators.”



Mainich holds an Engineering degree in Polymers from the Ecole Européenne de Chimie, Polymères et Matériaux of Strasbourg (France), and Executive MBA from the Ecole Supérieure Algérienne des Affaires in Algeria.



He is also a member of the U.S. President’s Advisory Council of Doing Business in Africa (PAC-DBIA), which brings together a wide range of industry expertise, to build capacity and expand market creation in Africa.